Documentation for Remote configuration (#16665)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/guide/how_remote_config_works.md

---
title: How Remote Configuration Works
kind: guide
is_beta: true
private: true
aliases:
- /agent/guide/how_rc_works
further_reading:
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/application_security/how-appsec-works/#built-in-protection"
  tag: "Documentation"

>   text: "How App Sec works"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  text: "How Application Security Monitoring Works"
```

- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/dash-2022-new-feature-roundup/#application-security-management-protection"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Application Security Protection"
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/dynamic_instrumentation/?tab=configurationyaml#enable-remote-configuration"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Dynamic Instrumentation"
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/cloud_workload_security/getting_started/?tab=kubernetes#overview"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Getting Started with Cloud Workload Security"

---
{{< site-region region="gov" >}}

Remote configuration is not available on the US1-FED Datadog site.

{{< /site-region >}}

{{< site-region region="us,us3,us5,eu" >}}

## Overview

> Remote Configuration is a Datadog capability that allows you to remotely configure the behavior of Datadog resources (for example, Agents and tracing libraries) deployed in your infrastructure, for select product features. Using Remote Configuration makes it easier to apply Agent and tracing library configurations in your environment on demand, decreasing management costs and reducing friction between teams, accelerating resolution times. For Datadog security products, Application Security Management and Cloud Workload Security, Remote Configuration-enabled Agents and compatible tracing libraries provide real-time security updates and responses, enhancing security posture for your applications and cloud infrastructure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remote Configuration is a Datadog capability that allows you to remotely configure the behavior of Datadog resources (for example, Agents and tracing libraries) deployed in your infrastructure, for select product features. Using Remote Configuration makes it easier to apply Agent and tracing library configurations in your environment on demand, decreasing management costs and reducing friction between teams, accelerating resolution times. 

For Datadog security products, Application Security Management and Cloud Workload Security, Remote Configuration-enabled Agents and compatible tracing libraries provide real-time security updates and responses, enhancing security posture for your applications and cloud infrastructure. 
```

## How it works

> Once you enable Remote Configuration on the Datadog Agent, it will periodically poll the configured [Datadog site](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/), to determine whether there are configuration changes to apply to your Remote Configuration-enabled Agents or tracing libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you enable Remote Configuration on the Datadog Agent, it periodically polls the configured [Datadog site][1], to determine whether there are configuration changes to apply to your Remote Configuration-enabled Agents or tracing libraries.
```
and the following at the end of the site-region:
`[1]: /getting_started/site/`

After you submit configuration changes in the respective Datadog product UI for a Remote Configuration enabled product feature, the changes are stored in Datadog. 

The following diagram illustrates how Remote Configuration works:

{{<img src="agent/guide/RC_Diagram_v2.png" alt="RC Diagram" width="90%" style="center">}}

> 1. Configure select product features through the Datadog UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You configure select product features in the Datadog UI.
```

> 2. The product feature configurations are securely stored within Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The product feature configurations are securely stored within Datadog.
```

3. Agents in your environments securely poll, receive, and automatically apply configuration updates from Datadog.

> **Note**: You cannot see configuration changes applied through Remote Configuration in your Agent configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Configuration changes applied through Remote Configuration are not shown in your Agent configuration file.
```

## Product and feature capabilities
The following products and features are supported with Remote Config: 

> #### Application Security Management (ASM):  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Application Security Management (ASM):  
```

<div class="alert alert-info">This feature is in beta.</div>

> - **1-click ASM activation**: This feature allows you to enable ASM in 1-click from the Datadog UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **1-click ASM activation**: Enable ASM in 1-click from the Datadog UI.
```

> - **In-App Web Application Firewall (WAF) automated attack patterns updates**: This feature allows your service to receive the newest attack patterns as Datadog releases them, following new vulnerabilities or attack vectors being disclosed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **In-App attack patterns updates**: Receive the newest Web Application Firewall (WAF) attack patterns automatically as Datadog releases them, following new vulnerabilities or attack vectors being disclosed.
```

> - **Protect**: This feature allows you to block attackers' IPs, authenticated users, and suspicious requests that are flagged in ASM Security Signals/Traces temporarily or permanently through the Datadog UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Protect**: Block attackers' IPs, authenticated users, and suspicious requests that are flagged in ASM Security Signals and Traces temporarily or permanently through the Datadog UI.
```

> #### Application Performance Monitoring (APM):  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Application Performance Monitoring (APM):  
```

> <div class="alert alert-info">This feature is only available in private beta.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">This feature is in private beta.</div>
```

> - **Remotely set agent sampling rate**: This features provides you the ability to remotely configure the Datadog Agent to change its trace sampling rates and set rules to scale your organization's trace ingestion according to your needs, without needing to restart your Datadog Agent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Remotely set Agent sampling rate**: Remotely configure the Datadog Agent to change its trace sampling rates and set rules to scale your organization's trace ingestion according to your needs, without needing to restart your Datadog Agent. 
```

> #### Dynamic Instrumentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dynamic Instrumentation:
```

> <div class="alert alert-info">This feature is only available in private beta.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">This feature is in private beta.</div>
```

> - **Dynamic Instrumentation**: This feature provides you the ability to send critical metrics, traces, and logs from your live applications with no code changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- * Send critical metrics, traces, and logs from your live applications with no code changes.
```

> #### Cloud Workload Security (CWS):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cloud Workload Security (CWS):
```

> <div class="alert alert-info">This feature is only available in private beta.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">This feature is in private beta.</div>
```

> - **Automatic default agent rule updates**: This feature allows you to automatically receive and update the default agent rules maintained by Datadog as new agent detections and enhancements are released. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Automatic default agent rule updates**: Automatically receive and update the default Agent rules maintained by Datadog as new Agent detections and enhancements are released. 
```

## Security Considerations
 

> Datadog has implemented the following safeguards which are designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of configurations received and applied to your Agents and tracing libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog implements the following safeguards, designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of configurations received and applied to your Agents and tracing libraries:
```

* Agents deployed in your infrastructure request configurations from Datadog.
* Datadog never sends configurations unless requested by Agents, and only sends configurations relevant to the requesting Agent.

> * Since the configuration requests are initiated from your Agents to Datadog over HTTPS (port 443), there is no need to open additional ports in your network firewall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Because the configuration requests are initiated from your Agents to Datadog over HTTPS (port 443), there is no need to open additional ports in your network firewall.
```

* The communication between your Agents and Datadog is encrypted using HTTPS, and is authenticated and authorized using your Datadog API key. 
* Only users with the right RBAC permissions are authorized to enable Remote Configuration scope on the API key and use the supported product features. 

> * Your configuration changes submitted via the Datadog UI are signed and validated on the Agent and tracing libraries, verifying integrity of the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your configuration changes submitted through the Datadog UI are signed and validated on the Agent and tracing libraries, verifying integrity of the configuration.
```

## Enabling Remote Configuration

> #### Pre-requisites to enable Remote Configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

> To use Remote Configuration, you need to meet the following prerequisites:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Datadog Agent version `7.41.1`  (`7.42.0` for APM sampling rate) or higher must be installed on your hosts or containers. 
> 2. For features that use tracing libraries (APM, ASM), use the following minimum versions of Datadog tracing libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Datadog Agent version `7.41.1`  (`7.42.0` for APM sampling rate) or higher installed on your hosts or containers. 
- For features that use tracing libraries (Dynamic Instrumentation, ASM), the following minimum versions of Datadog tracing libraries:
```

| Product feature                        | Go            | Java          | .Net          | NodeJS          
|----------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|

> | APM (feature: Dynamic Instrumentation) |               | 1.5.0         | 2.22.0        |               |
> | ASM feature: Protection                | 1.45.1        | 1.4.0         | 2.16.0        | 3.11.0        |
> | ASM feature: 1-click activation        |               | 1.4.0         | 2.17.0        | 3.9.0         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Dynamic Instrumentation |               | 1.5.0         | 2.22.0        |               |
| ASM Protect                | 1.45.1        | 1.4.0         | 2.16.0        | 3.11.0        |
| ASM 1-click activation        |               | 1.4.0         | 2.17.0        | 3.9.0         |
```

> #### Setup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setup
```

> Once you've ensured that you meet the prerequisites, you can proceed with enabling Remote Configuration using the following steps: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable Remote Configuration: 
```

> 1.  To authenticate and authorize your Agent to use Remote Configuration, you need to add Remote Configuration scope on your Datadog API key. [Contact support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/) to have your Organization added for Remote Config capability on API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  [Contact support][2] to have your organization enabled for adding the Remote Configuration capability on API keys.
```
and at end: 
`[2]: /help/`

> 2. Ensure your RBAC permissions include [api_keys_write](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/) so you can add Remote Configuration scope on an existing API key, or create a new API key. Contact your organization's Datadog administrator and update your permissions if you don't have it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Ensure your RBAC permissions include [`api_keys_write`][3] so you can create a new API key with the Remote Configuration scope, or add the scope on an existing API key. Contact your organization's Datadog administrator to update your permissions if you don't have it. You'll use the key with this scope to authenticate and authorize your Agent to use Remote Configuration. 
```
`[3]: /account_management/api-app-keys/`

> 3. In your [Organization Settings](https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys) page, either click on your existing API key, or click to Create a new API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the [Organization Settings][4] page, either select an existing API key, or create a new API key.
```
`[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys`

> 4. After creating a new API key, or clicking to edit your existing API key, you will see a screen to enable Remote Configuration:
> 
> {{<img src="agent/guide/RC_Key_updated.png" alt="RC Key Updated" width="90%" style="center">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enable Remote Config scope on the key:

   {{<img src="agent/guide/RC_Key_updated.png" alt="API Key properties with Remote Config scope Enable button." width="90%" style="center">}}
```

> 5. Update your agent configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Update your Agent configuration:
```

{{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab "Configuration yaml" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "Configuration YAML file" %}}
```

> Add the following to your configuration yaml.
> Ensure your Agent configuration is using the `api_key` that has Remote Config scope enabled. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following to your configuration YAML file, specifying the API key that has Remote Config scope enabled:
```

```yaml
api_key: xxx
remote_configuration:
  enabled: true

>   ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```
~~~

> 6. Restart your Datadog Agent for the changes to take effect.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Restart your Agent for the changes to take effect.  
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Environment variable" %}}

> Add the following to your Datadog Agent manifest.
> Ensure your Agent configuration is using the `api_key` that has Remote Config scope enabled. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following to your Datadog Agent manifest, specifying the API key that has Remote Config scope enabled: 
```

```yaml
DD_API_KEY=xxx
DD_REMOTE_CONFIGURATION_ENABLED=true
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

With this configuration, your Agent requests its configuration from Datadog, and the features that use remote configuration are enabled:

> - CWS [default agent rules](https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/default_rules/#cat-workload-security) update automatically as released.
> - APM Agent-level [sampling rates](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/trace_pipeline/ingestion_controls/#managing-ingestion-for-all-services-at-the-agent-level) are applied.  
> - [Dynamic Instrumentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/dynamic_instrumentation/?tab=configurationyaml#enable-remote-configuration) is enabled.
> - [ASM](https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/application_security/how-appsec-works/#built-in-protection) 1-Click enablement, IP blocking, and attack pattern updates are enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CWS default agent rules][5] update automatically as released.
- [APM Agent-level sampling rates][6] are applied.  
- [Dynamic Instrumentation][7] is enabled.
- [ASM 1-Click enablement, IP blocking, and attack pattern updates][8] are enabled.
```
`[5]: /security/default_rules/#cat-workload-security`
`[6]: /tracing/trace_pipeline/ingestion_controls/#managing-ingestion-for-all-services-at-the-agent-level`
`[7]: /dynamic_instrumentation/?tab=configurationyaml#enable-remote-configuration`
`[8]: /security/application_security/how-appsec-works/#built-in-protection`

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> 

Reviewer: add `[n]` link references here

> {{< /site-region >}}

Reviewer: Delete unused RC_Diagram.png file
